README.md, before:

# ResoNet

**ResoNet** is an experimental platform for exploring how resonance, harmonic interaction, and physical feedback can give rise to emergent structure — without explicit instruction, training, or AI constructs.

## 🔍 Project Overview

In a universe that began as chaos and has steadily refined itself into stars, molecules, and minds, **ResoNet** is a minimalist attempt to align with that same creative force: the natural evolution of persistent patterns from vibration and feedback.

This system is designed to:

1. **Observe** a sea of external vibrations using an array of piezoelectric sensors.
2. **Intervene** in that field through controllable actuators that apply vibrational energy.
3. **Analyze** the resulting vibrational landscape for symmetry, structure, and resonance.
4. **Prefer** (but not mandate) modifications that increase order or coherence.
5. **Allow** the harmonic field to evolve — not by human design, but through emergent interaction.

> This is not an AI project (yet).  
> It is a study of whether physical systems — given the ability to sense and act — can begin to shape themselves toward *clarity*, *symmetry*, and *persistent resonance*, without needing to be told what those things mean.

## 🧱 Technical Foundations

- **Hardware**: Raspberry Pi, multiple piezo sensors, vibration actuators, ADS1115 ADCs
- **Signal Processing**: Real-time FFT, energy tracking, harmonic detection
- **Visualization**: 3D plots and spectrograms to represent vibrational structure
- **Control Loop**: Feedback cycle where the system gently modifies its own input signals and observes the result

## 🧬 Guiding Questions

- Can harmonic structures emerge in a chaotic field with minimal intervention?
- Do certain resonant patterns naturally persist over time?
- What does “preference” look like in a system without goals?
- Could this substrate eventually serve as a tool — or even a metaphor — for AI?

## 🚧 Current Status

This is the first exploratory phase:
- [x] Project name and concept defined
- [ ] Simulated sensor input and FFT visualization
- [ ] Real-time plotting of harmonic surfaces
- [ ] Hardware integration with Raspberry Pi and ADS1115
- [ ] Closed-loop resonance modification system

## 🤝 Contribution

This is a solo prototype for now, but contributions, questions, and speculative discussions are welcome. Feel free to open issues or suggest papers, metaphors, or mechanisms.

## 🧠 Inspiration

> “The system clarifies the field.”

ResoNet is inspired by the idea that form and meaning can emerge — not from code or cognition — but from **structure**, **feedback**, and **resonance** itself.

---

## 🛠️ Setup Instructions

These instructions assume a Raspberry Pi 4 or 5 running Raspberry Pi OS (Bookworm) or Debian 12, with `git`, Python 3.11+, and `pip` installed.

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone git@github.com:FutureSteve/resonet.git
cd resonet
```

### 2. Create and activate a Python virtual environment

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

### 3. Install required Python packages

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you encounter issues with `sounddevice`, ensure `portaudio` is installed:

```bash
sudo apt install libportaudio2
```

### 4. Test tone playback

Connect your speaker or vibration transducer via amplifier, then run:

```bash
python test_tone.py
```

You should hear a brief tone. Adjust volume as needed on the amplifier.

### 5. Visualize waveform and frequency

To plot both the time-domain waveform and frequency spectrum:

```bash
python harmonic_plot.py
```

You can adjust the tone composition by modifying `harmonic_plot.py`.

---

Commit message:

PCB information for sensor board and updates to README.
Changing the overall design to be a multi-layer perceptron using resonance for discrimination. Instead of a single large resonator, each piezo sensor will have an associated piezo resonator. The resonators will be driven by PAM8403 dual-channel amplifier boards. Detected signals from the piezo sensors will be routed from the raspberry pi to the ESP32 and weighted signals will be output from the esp32 to the PAM8403 input channels to drive the piezo elements on layer 2.

README.md, after:

# ResoNet

**ResoNet** is an experimental platform for exploring how resonance, harmonic interaction, and physical feedback can give rise to emergent structure — without explicit instruction, training, or AI constructs.

## 🔍 Project Overview

In a universe that began as chaos and has steadily refined itself into stars, molecules, and minds, **ResoNet** is a minimalist attempt to align with that same creative force: the natural evolution of persistent patterns from vibration and feedback.

This system is designed to:

1. **Observe** a sea of external vibrations using an array of piezoelectric sensors.
2. **Intervene** in that field through controllable actuators that apply vibrational energy.
3. **Analyze** the resulting vibrational landscape for symmetry, structure, and resonance.
4. **Prefer** (but not mandate) modifications that increase order or coherence.
5. **Allow** the harmonic field to evolve — not by human design, but through emergent interaction.

> This is not an AI project (yet).  
> It is a study of whether physical systems — given the ability to sense and act — can begin to shape themselves toward *clarity*, *symmetry*, and *persistent resonance*, without needing to be told what those things mean.

## 🧱 Technical Foundations

- **Hardware**: Raspberry Pi, multiple piezo sensors, vibration actuators, ADS1115 ADCs
- **Signal Processing**: Real-time FFT, energy tracking, harmonic detection
- **Visualization**: 3D plots and spectrograms to represent vibrational structure
- **Control Loop**: Feedback cycle where the system gently modifies its own input signals and observes the result

## 🧬 Guiding Questions

- Can harmonic structures emerge in a chaotic field with minimal intervention?
- Do certain resonant patterns naturally persist over time?
- What does “preference” look like in a system without goals?
- Could this substrate eventually serve as a tool — or even a metaphor — for AI?

## 🚧 Current Status

This is the first exploratory phase:
- [x] Project name and concept defined
- [ ] Simulated sensor input and FFT visualization
- [ ] Real-time plotting of harmonic surfaces
- [ ] Hardware integration with Raspberry Pi and ADS1115
- [ ] Closed-loop resonance modification system

## 🧭 Architecture Update: Multi-Layer Physical Neural System

ResoNet now includes an experimental **two-layer resonant substrate**, where piezo disks serve as **resonators (outputs)** and **receivers (inputs)** in a physical neural network.

### Layer Design
- **Layer 1**: 4 driven piezo resonators on the left side of the shared aluminum substrate
- **Layer 2**: 2 driven piezo resonators on the right side
- Each layer has 4 receiving piezo disks mounted on the opposite side, connected to an ADS1115 ADC for sensing

### Signal Generation
- A dedicated **ESP32** generates 6 independent PWM signals (4 for Layer 1, 2 for Layer 2)
- PWM signals pass through RC filters into **PAM8403 dual-channel audio amplifiers**
- Output from the amplifiers drives the piezo disks

### Feedback Loop
- The **Raspberry Pi** reads vibration signals from the ADS1115
- Based on the output and a training target, the Pi computes error and weight adjustments using a form of **gradient descent**
- The Pi sends new drive amplitudes to the ESP32 over UART, updating PWM duty cycles

Schematic and PCB files for the sensor array are in the `pcb/` directory.


## 🤝 Contribution

This is a solo prototype for now, but contributions, questions, and speculative discussions are welcome. Feel free to open issues or suggest papers, metaphors, or mechanisms.

## 🧠 Inspiration

> “The system clarifies the field.”

ResoNet is inspired by the idea that form and meaning can emerge — not from code or cognition — but from **structure**, **feedback**, and **resonance** itself.

---

## 🛠️ Setup Instructions

These instructions assume a Raspberry Pi 4 or 5 running Raspberry Pi OS (Bookworm) or Debian 12, with `git`, Python 3.11+, and `pip` installed.

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone git@github.com:FutureSteve/resonet.git
cd resonet
```

### 2. Create and activate a Python virtual environment

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

### 3. Install required Python packages

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you encounter issues with `sounddevice`, ensure `portaudio` is installed:

```bash
sudo apt install libportaudio2
```

### 4. Test tone playback

Connect your speaker or vibration transducer via amplifier, then run:

```bash
python test_tone.py
```

You should hear a brief tone. Adjust volume as needed on the amplifier.

### 5. Visualize waveform and frequency

To plot both the time-domain waveform and frequency spectrum:

```bash
python harmonic_plot.py
```

You can adjust the tone composition by modifying `harmonic_plot.py`.

---
